Add AI skill for quarkus-quartz (#54050)
quarkusio/quarkus: extensions/quartz/deployment/src/main/resources/META-INF/quarkus-skill.md

### When to Use

> Use `quartz` instead of `scheduler` when you need: JDBC-backed persistent jobs, clustering, the direct Quartz API for programmatic job management, or misfire handling. For simple in-memory scheduling, `quarkus-scheduler` alone is sufficient.

Reviewer: Misfire handling is mentioned as one of the reasons to use this instead of `scheduler` but the skill doesn't describe anything related to it.

### Scheduled Methods

```java
@ApplicationScoped
public class Jobs {
    @Scheduled(every = "10s", identity = "my-job")
    void everyTenSeconds() { /* runs every 10 seconds */ }

    @Scheduled(cron = "0 0 8 * * ?", identity = "morning-report")
    void dailyAt8am() { /* Quartz cron format (6 fields, includes seconds) */ }
}
```

- Methods must be on CDI beans, return `void` or `Uni<Void>`, and take no arguments (or `ScheduledExecution`).
- The `identity` is used for pause/resume operations and must be unique.

> - Quartz cron uses **6 fields** (seconds minutes hours day-of-month month day-of-week), not the standard 5-field Unix cron.

Reviewer 2: This is actually configurable -- see https://quarkus.io/guides/scheduler-reference#quarkus-scheduler_quarkus-scheduler-cron-type. And yes, byt default the Quartz syntax is used.

Reviewer: We could mention the ability to configure - just as an after thought.
But I think I am fine with the skill describing the *default*, which will be most prominent.

### Two Scheduler APIs

1. **`io.quarkus.scheduler.Scheduler`** — Quarkus abstraction for controlling scheduled jobs:
   ```java
   @Inject Scheduler scheduler;
   scheduler.pause("my-job");
   scheduler.resume("my-job");
   boolean running = scheduler.isRunning();
   ```

> 2. **`org.quartz.Scheduler`** — Direct Quartz API for programmatic job creation:

Reviewer: We should probably instead mention the Quarkus native approach via `QuartzScheduler`?
From there you can use the Quarkus-way of creating a job or get a direct reference to the underlying Quartz `Scheduler`.

   ```java
   @Inject org.quartz.Scheduler quartz;

   JobDetail job = JobBuilder.newJob(MyJob.class)
       .withIdentity("dynamic-job", "my-group")
       .usingJobData("param", "value")
       .build();
   Trigger trigger = TriggerBuilder.newTrigger()
       .withIdentity("dynamic-trigger", "my-group")
       .withSchedule(SimpleScheduleBuilder.simpleSchedule()
           .withIntervalInSeconds(5).repeatForever())
       .build();
   quartz.scheduleJob(job, trigger);
   ```

Use the Quarkus `Scheduler` for pause/resume and status. Use the Quartz `Scheduler` for creating/deleting jobs at runtime.

### Programmatic Jobs (Quartz API)

Implement `org.quartz.Job`:

```java
public class MyJob implements Job {
    @Inject SomeService service;  // CDI injection works

    @Override
    public void execute(JobExecutionContext context) throws JobExecutionException {
        String param = context.getJobDetail().getJobDataMap().getString("param");
        service.process(param);
    }
}
```

- CDI injection works in `Job` classes automatically.

> - Use `@DisallowConcurrentExecution` to prevent overlapping executions.

Reviewer: We also have `@Nonconcurrent` which should be mentioned here.

- Access job data via `context.getJobDetail().getJobDataMap()`.

### Concurrent Execution

- By default, `@Scheduled` methods CAN run concurrently with themselves.
- Use `@Scheduled(concurrentExecution = SKIP)` to prevent concurrent runs.
- For Quartz `Job` classes, use `@DisallowConcurrentExecution`.

### JDBC Job Store (Persistent Jobs)

```properties
quarkus.quartz.store-type=jdbc-cmt
quarkus.quartz.clustered=true
```

> Requires a datasource. Quartz tables are created automatically if `quarkus.quartz.store-type=jdbc-cmt` is set. Jobs survive application restarts.

Reviewer: I don't think tables are created automatically?
Even the guide states you need SQL migration file - https://quarkus.io/guides/quartz#creating-quartz-tables

### Testing

- `@Scheduled` methods run during tests by default.
- Disable scheduling in tests if not needed: `quarkus.scheduler.enabled=false`.
- For timing-based tests, use `Awaitility`:
  ```java
  await().atMost(Duration.ofSeconds(5)).until(() -> counter.get() > 0);
  ```
- After pausing a job, wait and verify the counter doesn't change.

### Common Pitfalls

- Quartz cron uses **6 fields** (with seconds) — `"0 */5 * * * ?"` not `"*/5 * * * *"`.
- `@Scheduled` methods must be on CDI beans — plain classes are ignored.
- Do NOT use `@Scheduled` on private methods.
- The Quarkus `Scheduler` and Quartz `Scheduler` are different types — inject the right one for your use case.

> - "No scheduled business methods found" log message at startup is normal if code hasn't compiled yet in dev mode.

Reviewer 2: I have no idea what this actually means...

Reviewer: Same, this does appear to be gibberish and we should remove it (or reword if it has actual meaning?)

- Use `@Nonconcurrent` on a `@Scheduled` method to prevent overlapping executions.
- Alternatively, use `@Scheduled(concurrentExecution = SKIP)`.
- For Quartz `Job` classes, use `@DisallowConcurrentExecution`.

### JDBC Job Store (Persistent Jobs)

```properties
quarkus.quartz.store-type=jdbc-cmt
quarkus.quartz.clustered=true
```

Requires a datasource. Quartz tables must be created manually via SQL migration (Flyway or Liquibase) — see the [Quarkus Quartz guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/quartz#creating-quartz-tables) for the required table definitions. Jobs survive application restarts.

### Testing

- `@Scheduled` methods run during tests by default.
- Disable scheduling in tests if not needed: `quarkus.scheduler.enabled=false`.
- For timing-based tests, use `Awaitility`:
  ```java
  await().atMost(Duration.ofSeconds(5)).until(() -> counter.get() > 0);
  ```
- After pausing a job, wait and verify the counter doesn't change.

### Misfire Handling

Misfires occur when a job's trigger time passes without the job executing (e.g., the application was down). Configure misfire policies on `@Scheduled`:

```java
@Scheduled(cron = "0 0 8 * * ?", identity = "daily-report",

>     misfirePolicy = MisfirePolicy.FIRE_NOW)

Reviewer: `misfirePolicy`? Ehm, nope?
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/blob/3.36.0/extensions/scheduler/api/src/main/java/io/quarkus/scheduler/Scheduled.java

Sorry but this is just AI slop and I am not really inclined to spend cycles reading AI fantasy :)

Author: @manovotn please see comment above. Same applies here :)

Reviewer: I know and I am sorry for the my earlier comment; you didn't deserve that. Getting used to the AI-driven flow is sometimes challenging :)
I have pushed a commit that should address what issues I had with this file. I'll let Martin review and I think we can merge this.

### Misfire Handling

Misfires occur when a job's trigger time passes without the job executing (e.g., the application was down). Configure misfire policies in `application.properties`:

```properties
# Per-job misfire policy (keyed by the job's identity)
quarkus.quartz.misfire-policy."daily-report"=fire-now

# Global defaults for all triggers of a given type
quarkus.quartz.cron-trigger.misfire-policy=smart-policy
quarkus.quartz.simple-trigger.misfire-policy=smart-policy
```

Available policies (common):
- `smart-policy` (default) — Quartz picks a sensible policy based on the trigger type.
- `fire-now` — execute immediately on recovery.
- `ignore-misfire-policy` — fire all missed triggers.
- `cron-trigger-do-nothing` — skip misfired cron triggers and wait for the next scheduled time.

Additional simple-trigger-specific policies: `simple-trigger-reschedule-now-with-existing-repeat-count`, `simple-trigger-reschedule-now-with-remaining-repeat-count`, `simple-trigger-reschedule-next-with-existing-count`, `simple-trigger-reschedule-next-with-remaining-count`.

### Common Pitfalls

- Quartz cron uses **6 fields** by default (with seconds) — `"0 */5 * * * ?"` not `"*/5 * * * *"`.

> - `@Scheduled` methods must be on CDI beans — plain classes are ignored.

Reviewer 2: That's not quite right, we add `@Singleton` automatically to any class that has no scope annotation and declares at least one non-static method annotated with `@Scheduled`.

Reviewer: Hm, true thought I left this bit untouched as ultimately the class will become a CDI bean and having the agent create it with that in mind seemed like a good idea?
What would you put here instead? Or do you think we should just delete it?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `@Scheduled` methods must be on CDI beans — a class that has no scope and declares at least one non-static method annotated with `@Scheduled` is automatically annotated with `@Singleton`
```

I don't know, maybe something like this? ^

Reviewer: Done

  ```
- After pausing a job, wait and verify the counter doesn't change.

### Misfire Handling

Misfires occur when a job's trigger time passes without the job executing (e.g., the application was down). Configure misfire policies on `@Scheduled`:

```java
@Scheduled(cron = "0 0 8 * * ?", identity = "daily-report",

>     misfirePolicy = MisfirePolicy.FIRE_NOW)

Reviewer 2: This is pure AI-generated nonsense and definitely not even AI-validated (in the sense of fact-checking).

@phillip-kruger Honestly, reviewing this stuff is waste of time.

Author: Hi @mkouba - yes all the skills PRs are AI generated. Some is good and some needs some help and some is crap. I really just did this to try and help extension developers to get skills into the codebase as this make the agent experience better. I really just started an AI bot that followed https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus-agent-mcp/blob/main/docs/creating-extension-skills.md.

If it does not help, you can just close the PR and create one yourself. I would guess if we could not create an decent skill as described above, there is some bigger gaps that need the domain experts to get involved. 

Please can you look at creating an app with the quarkus-agent-mcp (without a skill for this extension) and using Sonnet model, and see how good the AI goes. If you need to guide the AI, that should be recorded in a skill. 

Apologies for wasting you time :)

Reviewer 2: > I really just did this to try and help extension developers to get skills into the codebase as this make the agent experience better.

I completely understand but I believe that we should at least run the generated `skills.md` through some automated verification process (that does not necessarily use Sonnet but some more advanced model). Because I'm pretty sure that it would catch similar crap and save our time. 

> Apologies for wasting you time :)

No problem :wink:.
